


                               April 22, 1986

        Description of RERF LSS-E85 Report 10 data file R10CANCR.DAT


    The file R10CANCR.DAT on this disk contains data used in the
analyses of cancer mortality among survivors of the atomic bombings of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  If these data are used as the basis for
analyses in any publication, including working papers and technical
reports, a statement of acknowledgement must be included in the
manuscript.  This statement should read


              These data have been obtained from the Radiation
              Effects Research Foundation (RERF) in Hiroshima,
              Japan.  RERF is a private foundation that is funded
              equally by the Japanese Ministry of Health and
              Welfare and the U.S.  Department of Energy through
              the U.S.  National Academy of Sciences.  The
              conclusions reached in this report are those of the
              authors and do not necessarily reflect the
              scientific judgement of RERF or its funding
              agencies.


Please send a copy of any such reprint to

                      Administration and Support Section
                      Publication and Documentation Center
                      Radiation Effects Research Foundation
                      5-2 Hijiyama Koen
                      Minami ku
                      Hiroshima Shi  732
                      JAPAN

    The data in the file summarize the cancer mortality experience
during the period from October 1, 1950 through December 31, 1982 for
91,231 exposed survivors in the Radiation Effects Research Foundation
(RERF) Life Span Study cohort as extended in 1985 (LSS-E85).  Data on
26,517 LSS members who were not in the city at the time of the bomb
(ATB) and 2,384 survivors for whom T65DR dose estimates could not be
caluclated have been excluded from the tabulation.

    This dataset was used for most of the analyses described in LSS
Report 10 Part I.  Cancer Mortality Among A-Bomb Survivors in Hiroshima
and Nagasaki, 1950-1982.  This report, which has been published by RERF
as TR 1-86, contains a detailed description of the categories used to
classify deaths (Table A1- 1), the method of person year calculation,
and the definition of the cross- classification used in the production
of this dataset.  Data on specific categories of noncancer mortality are
not included in the file.  Dose categories and estimates are based on
individual survivor T65DR dose estimates and do not reflect changes in
indivdual dose estimates due to recent substantial revisions in the
dosimetry system.





    With the exception of some of the age-at-exposure by attained age
analyses, which made use of a slightly different tabualation, the
analyses described in the body and in Appendix 3 of LSS Report 10 were
based upon the data as summarized in R10CANCR.DAT.

    R10CANCR.DAT is an ASCII text file.  Each record in the line in the
file contains the data for a single cell in a crosstabulation over city
(2 groups), sex (2 groups), age ATB (5 groups), T65DR dose (8 groups),
and time period (8 groups).  For each of these cells, the data are:

     a)   classmarks for city, sex, age ATB, dose, and time

     b)   an index variable which contains a unique value for each of the
          160 strata defined by the city, sex, age ATB, and time period
          categories.

     c)   the total number of person years at risk for persons in the cell

     b)   counts of the numbers of deaths in each of 26 nonexclusive
          categories.

    All fields are separated by at least one blank so the file can
easily be read using a FORTRAN free-format read.  Alternatively, either
of the following FORTRAN formats can be used:

                   (2I3,I4,F7.1,I5,I4,F10.2,26I4)

or

                   (2F3.0,F4.0,F7.0,F5.0,F4.0,F10.0,26F4.0).








      The following table describes the data for each record:


    NAME     Columns                   Description
__________  _________ ____________________________________________________

  CITY          3     city indicator Hiroshima=0,  Nagasaki=1

  SEX           5     sex indicator  Male=0, Female=1

  AGEATB       9:10   age at exposure, value given is age at the midpoint of
                      the interval.  There are 5 age at exposure intervals:
                      0-9,10-19,20-34,35-49,50+.

  DOSE        11:17   T65DR total exposure kerma.  The classmarks used are
                      city-specific dose group averages.  The eight dose
                      groups are 0, 1-9, 10-49, 50-99, 100-199, 200-299,
                      300-399, and 400+ centigray(rad).  T65DR exposure
                      kerma estimates were rounded to the nearset centigray
                      prior to grouping.  In computing the city-specifc
                      averages, dose estimates in excess of 6 Gray were set
                      equal to 6 Gray.  Average doses are given in
                      centiGray.




  TIME        21:22   last two digits of the year at the midpoint of the
                      time interval.  There are eight time intervals. The
                      first begins on October 1, 1950 and ends December 31,
                      1954.  The remaining seven intervals are each four
                      years long.  They begin on January 1 of 1955, 1959,
                      1963, 1967, 1971, 1975, and 1979.  The final time
                      period ends on December 31, 1982.

  INDEX       24:26   a variable which indexes strata defined by city, sex,
                      age ATB, and time period groups.  There are 160 such
                      strata.  The index values are integers between 1 and
                      160.

  PYR         27:36   the total number of person years

  ALLDEATH    37:40   all causes

  ALLDIS      41:44   all diseases, including cancer

  ALLNEO      45:48   all neoplasms

  ALLMAL      49:52   all malignant neoplasms

  LEUK        53:56   leukemia (acute and chronic)






  NONLEUK     58:60   all cancers except leuklemia

  DIGEST      61:64   cancers of the digestive organs and peritoneum

  ESOPH       65:68   cancer of the esophagus

  STOMACH     69:72   cancer of the stomach

  COLON       73:76   cancer of the colon

  RECTUM      77:80   cancers of the rectum, rectosigmoid, and anus

  LIVER       81:84   cancers of the liver and intrahepatic bile ducts

  GALLBLDR    85:88   cancers of the gallbladder and extrahepatic bile ducts

  PANCREAS    89:92   cancer of the pancreas

  OTHRDIG     93:96   other cancers of the digestive organs and peritoneum

  RESP        97:100  cancers of the respiratory system and interthoracic
                      organs

  LUNG       101:104  cancers of the trachea, bronchus, and lung

  FBREAST    105:108  cancer of the female breast

  FGENITAL   109:112  cancers of the cervix uteri, uterus, and placenta

  CERVIX     113:116  cancer of the cervix uteri

  OVARY      117:120  cancer of the ovary and other uterine adnexa

  PROSTATE   121:124  cancer of the prostate


  URINARY    125:128  cancers of the bladder, kidney, or other or
                      unspecified urinary organs

  LYMPHOMA   129:132  malignant lymphoma

  MYELOMA    133:136  multiple myeloma

  OTHRCA     137:140  other cancer deaths



